---
title: English Literature
author: Ben Worthington
date: 2021-08-14
layout: post
---

This page contains *Jekyll and Hyde, An Inspector Calls* and the Power and Conflict poetry studies.

## Jekyll and Hyde

Available to read [here.](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Strange_Case_of_Dr_Jekyll_and_Mr_Hyde/Story_of_the_Door)

### Summary

Utterson and his cousin Enfield reached the door of a large house on their weekly walk. Enfield tells Utterson that months ago, he saw a sinister-looking man named Hyde trample a young girl after accidentally bumping into her. Enfield forced Hyde to pay him £100 to avoid a scandal. Hyde gave Enfield a cheque signed by a reputable gentleman later revealed to be Jekyll, Utterson's friend and client. Utterson fears Hyde is blackmailing Jekyll, as Jekyll also recently changed his will to make Hyde the sole beneficiary. When Utterson tries to discuss Hyde with Jekyll, Jekyll tells Utterson he can get rid of Hyde when he wants and asks him to drop the matter.

One night in October, a servant sees Hyde beat Sir Danvers Carew, another one of Utterson's clients, to death and leave behind half a broken cane. The police contact Utterson, who leads officers to Hyde's apartment. Hyde had vanished, but they find the other half of the broken cane. Utterson recognizes the cane as one he had given to Jekyll. Utterson visits Jekyll, who shows Utterson a note, allegedly written to Jekyll by Hyde, apologizing for the trouble that he has caused. However, Hyde's handwriting is similar to Jekyll's own, leading Utterson to conclude that Jekyll forged the note to protect Hyde.

For two months, Jekyll reverts to his former sociable manner, but in early January, he starts refusing visitors. Dr. Lanyon, a mutual acquaintance of Jekyll and Utterson, dies of shock after receiving information relating to Jekyll. Before his death, Lanyon gives Utterson a letter to be opened after Jekyll's death or disappearance. In late February, during another walk with Enfield, Utterson starts a conversation with Jekyll at his laboratory window. Jekyll suddenly slams the window and disappears, shocking and concerning Utterson.

In early March, Jekyll's butler, Mr. Poole, visits Utterson and tells him Jekyll has secluded himself in his laboratory for weeks. Utterson and Poole break into the laboratory, where they find Hyde's body wearing Jekyll's clothes, apparently having killed himself. They find a letter from Jekyll to Utterson. Utterson reads Lanyon's letter, then Jekyll's. Lanyon's letter reveals his deterioration resulted from the shock of seeing Hyde drink a serum that turned him into Jekyll. Jekyll's letter explains he had indulged in unstated vices and feared discovery. He found a way to transform himself and thereby indulge his vices without fear of detection. Jekyll's transformed body, Hyde, was evil, self-indulgent, and uncaring to anyone but himself. Initially, Jekyll controlled the transformations with the serum, but one night in August, he became Hyde involuntarily in his sleep.

Jekyll managed to stop becoming Hyde for months. Despite this, one night he had a moment of weakness and drank the serum. Hyde, his desires having been caged for so long, killed Carew. Horrified, Jekyll tried more adamantly to stop the transformations. Then, in early January, he transformed involuntarily while awake. Far from his laboratory and hunted by the police as a murderer, Hyde needed help to avoid capture. He wrote to Lanyon in Jekyll's hand, asking his friend to bring chemicals from his laboratory. In Lanyon's presence, Hyde mixed the chemicals, drank the serum, and transformed into Jekyll. The shock of the sight instigated Lanyon's deterioration and death. Meanwhile, Jekyll's involuntary transformations increased in frequency and required larger doses of the serum to reverse. It was one of these transformations that caused Jekyll to slam his window shut on Enfield and Utterson.

Eventually, one of the chemicals used in the serum ran low, and subsequent batches prepared from new stocks failed to work. Jekyll speculated that one of the original ingredients must have had some unknown impurity that made it work. Realizing that he would stay transformed as Hyde, Jekyll wrote out a full account of the events and locked himself in his laboratory with the intent to keep Hyde imprisoned and, as Poole & Utterson smash down the door to the laboratory, committed suicide by poison. 

### Characters

#### Jekyll

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

#### Hyde

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

#### Utterson

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

#### Lanyon

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

### Themes

Content

## An Inspector Calls

### Summary

Content

### Characters

#### Inspector Goole

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

#### Mr Birling

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

#### Mrs Birling

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

#### Sheila

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

#### Eric

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

#### Gerald

Content

##### Quotes

>**

Content

>**

Content

### Themes

Content

## Power and Conflict Poetry
##### THIS IS NOW NOT NEEDED IN GCSE. NO NEW POEMS DONE AFTER EXPOSURE.

### Ozymandias

>*I met a traveller from an antique land*  
*Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone*  
*Stand in the desert. Near them on the sand,*  
*Half sunk, a shatter’d visage lies, whose frown*  
*And wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command*  
*Tell that its sculptor well those passions read*  
*Which yet survive, stamp’d on these lifeless things,*  
*The hand that mock’d them and the heart that fed;*  
*And on the pedestal these words appear:*  
*‘My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:*  
*Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!’*  
*Nothing beside remains. Round the decay*  
*Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare,*  
*The lone and level sands stretch far away.*
*‎‎*  
**Percy Bysshe Shelley**

#### Context  

* Based on Ramses II
  * Inscription on his tomb describes him as *king of kings*
  * Ordered a statue to be built
    * Used slave labour to build them
* Ramses wanted to build memorials which would last forever.
* The poem is about a statue of ex-leader Ozymandias crumbling in a bad state of repair, juxtaposing to his idea of lasting forever in the form of a statue.

#### Annotations

>*I met a traveller from an **antique land***

Being said by the narrator, *'antique land'* suggests they haven't even heard of Ozymandias.  

>*Who said: Two vast and **Trunkless legs of stone***

This informs the reader the statue has crumbled

>***Stand in the desert.*** *Near them on the sand,*

Lifeless - Time and nature has more power than the human race.  
Empty, vast and vague.

>***My name is Ozymandias, king of kings***

Shows the reader that Ozymandias is arrogant - he only wants power and is willing to exploit people to get more.

>***Look*** *on my words, ye mighty, and **despair!***

*'look'* and *'despair'* are both imperative verbs that are instructing others to admire him, showing he is hungry for more power and attention.

>*The **lone and level** sands stretch far away*

Alliteration that emphasizes the vastness of a desert.

### London

>*I wander through each chartered street,*  
*Near where the chartered Thames does flow,*  
*And mark in every face I meet*  
*Marks of weakness, marks of woe.*    
*‎‎*  
*In every cry of every man,*  
*In every infant’s cry of fear,*  
*In every voice, in every ban,*  
*The mind-forged manacles I hear:*    
*‎‎*  
*How the chimney-sweeper’s cry*  
*Every black’ning church appalls,*  
*And the hapless soldier’s sigh*  
*Runs in blood down palace walls.*    
*‎‎*  
*But most through midnight streets I hear*  
*How the youthful harlot’s curse*  
*Blasts the new-born infant’s tear,*  
*And blights with plagues the marriage hearse.*  
*‎‎*  
**William Blake**

#### Context
* Blake lost faith in religion after he found the church to be very hypocritical.
  * He noticed the church refused to help those most in need while preaching to help others.
* Industrial revolution is taking place in England and the French revolution is happening in France - many of the poorer people are going against the aristocracy (rich and royal).
* Poem depicts the backstreets and the poorer side of London.
  * Whilst the city was a growing metropolis, it also has a large dark side.
* Many STIs being spread by prostitutes and many dying.

#### Annotations
>***I wander*** *through each **chartered** street,*  
*Near where the **chartered** Thames does flow,*  

*'I wander'* - Walking slowly, without purpose.  
The repetition of chartered shows everything is laid out and controlled.

>***And mark in every face I meet***  
***Marks of weakness, marks of woe.***  

Everyone he meets looks distressed, emphasising the scale of London's problem.

>***In every*** *cry of every man,*  
***In every*** *infant’s cry of fear,*  
***In every*** *voice, in every **ban**,*   

Repetition, showing poverty is all consuming.  
*'Ban'* reffering to Government rules and laws.

>*How the **chimney-sweeper's** cry*  
*Every **black’ning church** appalls,*  
*And the hapless soldier’s sigh*  

Suggests everybody is fed up and distressed.  
*'chimney sweeper'* Is referencing child labour.
*'black'ning church'* Represents the corruption in the church, who refused to help those suffering in the most need.  

>*Runs in **blood down palace** walls.*  

Metaphor - palace made with suffering of the poor.

>*But most through **midnight streets** I hear*  

The dark side of London.

>*How the **youthful Harlot's curse***  

They feel sympathy on the unfortunate situation of the prostitutes.

>*Blast the **new-born infant's tear***  

Children born into a life of poverty.

### The Prelude

>*One summer evening (led by her) I found*  
*A little boat tied to a willow tree*  
*Within a rocky cove, its usual home.*  
*Straight I unloosed her chain, and stepping in*  
*Pushed from the shore. It was an act of stealth*  
*And troubled pleasure, nor without the voice*  
*Of mountain-echoes did my boat move on;*  
*Leaving behind her still, on either side,*  
*Small circles glittering idly in the moon,*  
*Until they melted all into one track*  
*Of sparkling light. But now, like one who rows,*  
*Proud of his skill, to reach a chosen point*  
*With an unswerving line, I fixed my view*  
*Upon the summit of a craggy ridge,*  
*The horizon’s utmost boundary; far above*  
*Was nothing but the stars and the grey sky.*  
*She was an elfin pinnace; lustily*  
*I dipped my oars into the silent lake,*  
*And, as I rose upon the stroke, my boat*  
*Went heaving through the water like a swan;*  
*When, from behind that craggy steep till then*  
*The horizon’s bound, a huge peak, black and huge,*  
*As if with voluntary power instinct,*  
*Upreared its head. I struck and struck again,*  
*And growing still in stature the grim shape*  
*Towered up between me and the stars, and still,*  
*For so it seemed, with purpose of its own*  
*And measured motion like a living thing,*  
*Strode after me. With trembling oars I turned,*  
*And through the silent water stole my way*  
*Back to the covert of the willow tree;*  
*There in her mooring-place I left my bark, –*  
*And through the meadows homeward went, in grave*  
*And serious mood; but after I had seen*  
*That spectacle, for many days, my brain*  
*Worked with a dim and undetermined sense*  
*Of unknown modes of being; o’er my thoughts*  
*There hung a darkness, call it solitude*  
*Or blank desertion. No familiar shapes*  
*Or blank desertion. No familiar shapes*  
*Remained, no pleasant images of trees,*  
*Of sea or sky, no colours of green fields;*  
*But huge and mighty forms, that do not live*  
*Like living men, moved slowly through the mind*  
*By day, and were a trouble to my dreams.*  
*‎‎*  
**William Wordsworth**

#### Context
* Wordsworth lived an unhappy childhood, influencing his poetry.
  * Much of it discusses the power of nature and the relationship man has with it.
* Believes nature is much more powerful than man.

#### Annotations

>*One summer evening **led by her** I found*

Personification of nature - *'led by'* shows nature is in charge.

>*Pushed from shore. It was an **act of stealth***

They had confidence in what they were doing

>*And **troubled pleasure**, nor without the voice*

They feel excited yet have guilt.

>***Small circles glittering idly in the moon,***  
***Until they melted all into one track***  
***Of sparkling light. But now, like one who rows,***  

Vivid description of the area around them.

>***Proud of his skill**, to reach a chosen point*

Shows the confidence and arrogance of man.

>***She was an elfin pinnace**; lustily*

He loves the 'ship' he is sailing. Shows arrogance.

>*I dipped my oars into the **silent lake,***

Believes nature isn't powerful.

>*And, as I rose upon the stroke, **my boat***

Takes what he wants and claims it as his.

>*Went heaving through the water **like a swan;***

Simile - graceful and in control.

>***When**, from behind that craggy steep till then*

Volta - turning point in the poem.

>*The horizon’s bound, a **huge peak, black and huge,***

Repetition.
Sees the mountain as threatening/menacing.  
Realises he was wrong, and that nature is more powerful than him.

>***Upreared its head**. I struck and struck again,*

Threatening the boy.

>*And **growing still in stature** the grim shape*  
***Towered up between me** and the stars, and still,*

Feels like it is chasing him and getting closer.  
Feeling guilty.

>***Strode after me.** With **trembling oars** I turned,*

Chasing him like it is a simple walk.  
Boy is terrified about the experience.

>*There in her mooring-place I left my bark, –*

He has realised the power nature holds and has returned the boat in total shame and guilt.

>*And through the meadows homeward went, **in grave***

The tone has shifted - rather disturbed.

>***That spectacle, for many days, my brain***

The experience haunts him for days

>***Of unknown modes of being**; o’er my thoughts*

Realises he doesn't know everything

>_**There hung a darkness**, call it **solitude**_

Its scary not knowing things.  
He feels lonely.

>*Remained, **no pleasant images** of trees,*

He has forgotten the beauty of nature.

>*By day, and were a **trouble to my dreams.***

Haunted by that moment

### My Last Duchess

>Ferarra  
*That’s my last Duchess painted on the wall,*  
*Looking as if she were alive. I call*  
*That piece a wonder, now: Frà Pandolf’s hands*  
*Worked busily a day, and there she stands.*  
*Will’t please you sit and look at her? I said*  
*‘Frà Pandolf’ by design, for never read*  
*Strangers like you that pictured countenance,*  
*The depth and passion of its earnest glance,*  
*But to myself they turned (since none puts by*  
*The curtain I have drawn for you, but I)*  
*And seemed as they would ask me, if they durst,*  
*How such a glance came there; so, not the first*  
*Are you to turn and ask thus. Sir, ’twas not*  
*Her husband’s presence only, called that spot*  
*Of joy into the Duchess’ cheek: perhaps*  
*Frà Pandolf chanced to say ‘Her mantle laps*  
*Over my lady’s wrist too much,’ or ‘Paint*  
*Must never hope to reproduce the faint*  
*Half-flush that dies along her throat’: such stuff*  
*Was courtesy, she thought, and cause enough*  
*For calling up that spot of joy. She had*  
*A heart – how shall I say? – too soon made glad,*  
*Too easily impressed; she liked whate’er*  
*She looked on, and her looks went everywhere.*  
*Sir, ’twas all one! My favour at her breast,*  
*The dropping of the daylight in the West,*  
*The bough of cherries some officious fool*  
*Broke in the orchard for her, the white mule*  
*She rode with round the terrace – all and each*  
*Would draw from her alike the approving speech,*  
*Or blush, at least. She thanked men, – good! but thanked*  
*Somehow – I know not how – as if she ranked*  
*My gift of a nine-hundred-years-old name*  
*With anybody’s gift. Who’d stoop to blame*  
*This sort of trifling? Even had you skill*  
*In speech – (which I have not) – to make your will*  
*Quite clear to such an one, and say, ‘Just this*  
*Or that in you disgusts me; here you miss,*  
*Or there exceed the mark’ – and if she let*  
*Herself be lessoned so, nor plainly set*  
*Her wits to yours, forsooth, and made excuse,*  
*– E’en then would be some stooping; and I choose*  
*Never to stoop. Oh sir, she smiled, no doubt,*  
*Whene’er I passed her; but who passed without*  
*Much the same smile? This grew; I gave commands;*  
*Then all smiles stopped together. There she stands*  
*As if alive. Will’t please you rise? We’ll meet*  
*The company below, then. I repeat,*  
*The Count your master’s known munificence*  
*Is ample warrant that no just pretence*  
*Of mine for dowry will be disallowed;*  
*Though his fair daughter’s self, as I avowed*  
*At starting, is my object. Nay, we’ll go*  
*Together down, sir. Notice Neptune, though,*  
*Taming a sea-horse, thought a rarity,*  
*Which Claus of Innsbruck cast in bronze for me!*  
*‎‎*  
**Robert Browning**

#### Context
* Dukes/Duchesses are usually born or married into the role.
  * They are higher up than everything other than princes/princesses and kings/queens.
* Set and written during a time when women had near to no power.
* Poem is a criticism on how women are treated in society.
* Based on fictional characters however some have speculated it refers to certain historical characters.

#### Annotations

>***Ferrara***

Establishing where the poem is set

>*That’s **my last Duchess** painted on the wall,*

Possessive pronoun could suggests he 'owned' the painting and the woman herself.

>***Looking as if she were alive.** I call*

Sets a sinister tome - hints at her death.

>***Will’t please you sit and look at her? I said***

Politely ordering to admire the painting.  
Constant use of the personal pronoun 'I' shows the man is narcissistic.

>***The curtain I have drawn for you**, but I)*

Sinister.  
The curtain is metaphorical of his control - he is in charge of hiding her away or 'showing her off' to guests.

>*And seemed as they would ask me, **if they durst,***

*'If they dared'* - suggests people were afraid of his volatile temper.

>*Are you to turn and ask thus. Sir, ’twas not*

Enjambment - could suggest he like talking about himself/egotistical?

>***Half-flush that dies along her throat’**: such stuff*

Reference to duchess' death - strangulation.  
Hints at duchess' fate - foreshadowing.

>*Or blush, at least. **She thanked men, – good!** but thanked*

He stammers, which could suggest he is worried and *'good!'* suggests he is jealous because she treated everyone similarly to the way she treated him.

>***Somehow – I know not how – as if she ranked***  
***My gift of a nine-hundred-years-old name***  
***With anybody’s gift.** Who’d stoop to blame*

Believes her to very ungrateful as he didn't get a different response when she was 'gifted' his name in marriage. He believed his wife should only blush at him.

>*Whene’er **I** passed her; but who passed without*  
*Much the same smile? This grew; **I** gave commands;*  
***Then all smiles stopped together.** There she stands*  
*As if alive. Will’t please you rise? We’ll meet*  
*The company below, then. **I** repeat,*

Repetition of I suggests he is self-obsessed. He can't stop going on about himself.  
*Then all smiles stopped together.* - Duke ordered for her to be killed.

>***Taming a sea-horse,** thought a rarity,*

Dehumanising his wife.  
Tried to 'tame' her, which failed.

### Charge of the Light Brigade

>*Half a league, half a league,*  
*Half a league onward,*  
*All in the valley of Death*  
*‎‎‎Rode the six hundred.*  
*‘Forward, the Light Brigade!*  
*Charge for the guns!’ he said:*  
*Into the valley of Death*  
*‎‎Rode the six hundred.*    
*‎‎*  
*‘Forward, the Light Brigade!’*  
*Was there a man dismay’d?*  
*Not tho’ the soldier knew*  
*‎Some one had blunder’d:*  
*Theirs not to make reply,*  
*Theirs not to reason why,*  
*Theirs but to do and die:*  
*Into the valley of Death*  
*‎‎‎Rode the six hundred.*      
*‎‎*  
*Cannon to right of them,*  
*Cannon to left of them,*  
*Cannon in front of them*  
*Volley’d and thunder’d;*  
*Storm’d at with shot and shell,*  
*Boldly they rode and well,*  
*Into the jaws of Death,*  
*Into the mouth of Hell*  
*Rode the six hundred.*  
*‎‎*  
*Flash’d all their sabres bare,*  
*Flash’d as they turn’d in air*  
*Sabring the gunners there,*  
*Charging an army, while*  
*All the world wonder’d:*  
*Plunged in the battery-smoke*  
*Right thro’ the line they broke;*  
*Cossack and Russian*  
*Reel’d from the sabre-stroke*  
*Shatter’d and sunder’d.*  
*Then they rode back, but not*  
*Not the six hundred.*  
*‎‎*  
*Cannon to right of them,*  
*Cannon to left of them,*  
*Cannon behind them*  
*Volley’d and thunder’d;*  
*Storm’d at with shot and shell,*  
*While horse and hero fell,*  
*They that had fought so well*  
*Came thro’ the jaws of Death*  
*Back from the mouth of Hell,*  
*All that was left of them,*  
*Left of six hundred.*  
*‎‎*  
*When can their glory fade?*  
*O the wild charge they made!*  
*All the world wonder’d.*  
*Honour the charge they made!*  
*Honour the Light Brigade,*  
*Noble six hundred!*  
*‎‎*  
**Alfred Lord Tennyson**

#### Context
* Based on the Crimean war, in which Britain fought Russia between 1853 and 1856
* First war in history newspapers reported eyewitness statements along with triumphs and mistakes
* Most memorable moment of the war was the Battle of Balaclava.
  * Part of this battle involves unarmed cavalrymen following a mistaken command and being surrounded by Russians.

#### Annotations

>***Half a league, half a league,***  
***Half a league onward,***

Repetition - they were given an order and made to do it.

>*All in the **valley of Death***

Metaphor.  
Sinister, guaranteed death.  
All in it together.

>***Rode the six hundred.***

Repetition of this through out the poem emphasises the collective force of 600 soldiers.

>***Theirs not to make reply,***  
***Theirs not to reason why,***  
***Theirs but to do and die:***

It is the soldiers' only purpose.  
They are forced to follow all commands.

>***Cannon to right of them,***  
***Cannon to left of them,***  
***Cannon in front of them***

Repetition - they are surrounded at every angle.

>***Storm’d** at with shot and shell,*

They have been bombarded

>***Boldly** they rode and well,*

Brave, without hesitation.

>*Into the **jaws of Death,***  
*Into the **mouth of Hell***

Personification, making the area seem even more dangerous.

>*Flash’d as they **turn’d in air***

They were very quick to respond, making it a hectic rush to escape.

>***Sabring the gunners** there,*

Ready to fight.

>***All the world wonder’d:***

Positively: Everyone was amazed by the bravery of the soldiers.  
Negatively: Questioning why they were ordered to charge in the first place.

>***Not** the six hundred.*

Some have been killed.

>*While **horse and hero** fell,*

Alliteration.  
Soldiers being marked as heroes.  
Soldiers and their horses dying.

>***Honour** the charge they made!*
***Honour** the Light Brigade,*

Imperative verb - instructed to honour their actions.

>***Noble** six hundred!*

Brave, respectful soldiers.

### Exposure

>*Our brains ache, in the merciless iced east winds that knive*  
    *us ...*  
*Wearied we keep awake because the night is silent ...*  
*Low, drooping flares confuse our memory of the salient ...*  
*Worried by silence, sentries whisper, curious, nervous,*  
    *But nothing happens.*  
*‎‎*  
*Watching, we hear the mad gusts tugging on the wire,*  
*Like twitching agonies of men among its brambles.*  
*Northward, incessantly, the flickering gunnery rumbles,*  
*Far off, like a dull rumour of some other war.*  
    *What are we doing here?*  
*‎‎*  
*The poignant misery of dawn begins to grow ...*  
*We only know war lasts, rain soaks, and clouds sag stormy.*  
*Dawn massing in the east her melancholy army*  
*Attacks once more in ranks on shivering ranks of grey,*  
    *But nothing happens.*  
*‎‎*  
*Sudden successive flights of bullets streak the silence.*  
*Less deadly than the air that shudders black with snow,*  
*With sidelong flowing flakes that flock, pause, and renew,*  
*We watch them wandering up and down the wind’s*  
    *nonchalance*  
      *But nothing happens.*  
*‎‎*  
*Pale flakes with fingering stealth come feeling for our faces –*  
*We cringe in holes, back on forgotten dreams, and stare,*  
    *snow-dazed,*  
*Deep into grassier ditches. So we drowse, sun-dozed,*  
*Littered with blossoms trickling where the blackbird fusses.*  
    *– Is it that we are dying?*  
*‎‎*  
*Slowly our ghosts drag home: glimpsing the sunk fires, glozed*  
*With crusted dark-red jewels; crickets jingle there;*  
*For hours the innocent mice rejoice: the house is theirs;*  
*Shutters and doors, all closed: on us the doors are closed, -*  
*We turn back to our dying.*  
*‎‎*  
*Since we believe not otherwise can kind fires burn;*  
*Nor ever suns smile true on child, or field, or fruit.*  
*For God’s invincible spring our love is made afraid;*  
*Therefore, not loath, we lie out here; therefore were born,*  
    *For love of God seems dying.*  
*‎‎*  
*Tonight, this frost will fasten on this mud and us,*  
*Shrivelling many hands, puckering foreheads crisp.*  
*The burying-party, picks and shovels in shaking grasp,*  
*Pause over half-known faces. All their eyes are ice,*  
*But nothing happens.*  
*‎‎*  
**Wilfred Owen**

#### Context
* Diagnosed with shell shock/PTSD
* Famously said 'All a poet can do today is warn.'

#### Annotations

>***Exposure***

Exposing the reality of war.  
People are exposed to harm and damage - no protection.

>*Our **brains ache**, in the merciless iced east **winds that knive***

The weather is violent - there is a sharp pain from all the cold.

>***Worried by silence, sentries whisper, curious, nervous,***

*'Worried by silence'* - Shows they have been waiting for a long time for something to happen.  
*'sentries whisper, curious, nervous,'* - The soldiers are on high alert at all times, there is no time to relax.

>*Watching, we hear the **mad gusts tugging** on the wire,*

Weather is aggressive.

>*Like **twitching agonies** of men among its brambles.*

Personification.  
Men are barley alive, moving in pain.

>***What are we doing here?***

Rhetorical question.  
Expresses Owen's feeling of disappointment and hopelessness.

>*The poignant misery of **dawn** begins to grow ...*

A hope for a new beginning.  
Juxtaposes with *'misery'*

>_**Dawn** massing in the east her **melancholy army**_

Personification - not as a hopeful figure, instead implying for the soldiers, daylight only bring more conflict.

>***But nothing happens.***

Short sentence repeated through out the poem.  
Shows increasing desperation felt by the soldiers every time it is repeated.

>***Sudden successive** flights of bullets streak the silence.*

Sibilance - sound of the bullets flying though the air.

>*We watch them wandering up and down the **wind’s***
***nonchalance***

Personification - the wind is unaffected and uncaring on what is happening around it.

## Notes

Leave line in blockquote:  

``` *‎‎*  ```
