---
title: Physics
author: Ben Worthington
date: 2020-01-02
layout: post
---

## Forces

### Scalar and vectors

* A __scalar__ only has a size, like speed.
* A __vector__ has both a size and a direction, like velocity.
    * Arrows can be used to represent vectors, with the length showing the size and pointing in the direction of the force.
    * __Forces__ are vectors as they have both a magnitude and a direction.

### Contact and non-contact forces

* __Contact Forces__ - when the objects touch, like tension if you were pulling on something.
    * More examples include:
        * Friction
        * Air resistance
        * Tension
* __Non-contact forces__ - When the objects are __not__ touching, like the force of gravity.
    * More examples include:
        * Gravitational force
        * Electrostatic force
        * Magnetic force

### Gravity

* A force of attraction between all masses.
* Caused by a gravitational field around the planet.
* The __mass__ of an object is related to the amount of matter it contains - so it is constant.
* However, the __weight__ of an object is the force acting on an object due to gravity.
    * Dependent on the gravitational field strength and directly proportional to mass.
    * __weight = mass x gravitational field strength__

### Resultant Forces

When multiple forces act on one object, they can all be seen as a single force that is equivalent to all the forces acting together.

### Vector Diagrams (Higher)

* A [__free body diagram__](https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/guides/zpwhrwx/revision/3) can be used to show different forces acting on an object.
* A scale vector diagram is used to show the overall effect of multiple forces on an object.
    * All forces are added together to find 1 resultant force, including both magnitude and direction.
    * The vectors are added an a resultant force arrow is drawn.

### Work Done and Energy Transfer

* When a force makes an object move, __work__ is done on the object, as it requires energy to move.
* 1J of work is done when a force of 1N causes a displacement of 1M.
    * __Work done = force x distance moved__

### Forces and elasticity

* To change the shape of an object, more than 1 force must be applied.
    * _A spring must be pulled from both ends to stretch it_
* If an object returns to its original shape after the forces are removed, it was __elastically deformed__.
* It it does __not__ return to it original shape, it was __inelastically deformed__.
* The extension of an object is directly proportional to the applied force.
* However, one the __limit of proportionality__ has been exceeded, doubling the force will no longer double the extension and it will no longer be directly proportional.

* The spring constant shows how easy/hard it is to stretch/compress a spring.
    * The higher the value, the stiffer the spring.
* A force that stretches/compress a spring stores elastic potential energy in the spring.
* __Force = spring constant x extension__ 

### Moments

* When a force causes an object to turn around a __pivot point__, the turning effect is called the __moment__.
    * __Moment = force x distance__
* If an object is balanced, the total clockwise moment is equal to the total anticlockwise moment around that pivot.

### Levers and gears

* Can be used to magnify size of applied force/distance force moves over.
* When the applied force moves further than the transmitted force, the force is increased.
* When the applied force is bigger than the transmitted force, the distance is increased.